# Bellabeat Product: Analyzed Fitbit users data and made insightful recommendations to Bellabeat Technology Company in order to improve her product quality and marketing activities
## Google Data Analytics Professional Certificate Capstone Project

### **Ask Phase: Asking Questions to Understand the Business Task** 
- **The Stakeholders**: Urška Sršen - cofounder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat; Sando Mur - Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder and the Executive Team.
- **The Business Question**: Identify trends and customer behaviors in the use of non-Bellabeat smart devices in order to improve product quality and optimize the marketing operations of Bellabeat Technology Company.

### **Prepare Phase: Preparing Data Needed to Solve The Business Task** 
**Description of Data Source**
- The dataset is generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 03.12.2016-05.12.2016. Thirty eligible Fitbit users consented to the submission of personal tracker data, including minute-level output for physical activity, heart rate, and sleep monitoring.

- There are 18 CSV documents at my disposal. Every record represents a distinct piece of quantitative data collected by Fitbit. Because each row represents one time point per subject, each subject will have data in multiple rows. Given that data is tracked by day and time, each user has a unique ID and different rows.

- Due to the tiny sample size, I sorted and filtered tables in Excel, creating Pivot Tables. I was able to confirm the properties and observations of each table, as well as the relationships between tables. I counted the number of users in each table and validated the length of the analysis - 31 days.

- After becoming acquainted with the data, I uploaded the datasets on R Studio that will assist me in answering our business task. I concentrated my investigation on the following datasets:
  1. Daily_activity
  2. Daily_intensity.
  3. Daily_steps.
  
 ### **Process Phase: Processing the data to get all rid of possible errors.** 
 **Documentation of the data cleaning process**
  
 - I used R programming to process my data sets,  since it will allow me to clean the data rapidly and effectively.
  
 - R Packages Used:
    1. tidyverse
    2. lubridate
    3. skimr
    4. janitor
    5. dplyr
    6. tidyr
    7. readr
   

  - [See Documentation Here](https://bit.ly/Doc_DataCleaningAndAnalysis)
   
  ### **Analyse Phase: Analyzing the data to uncover insights.** 
  **Documentation of the data analysis process**
  
  - I used R programming to analyze the data sets.
  
  - R Packages Used:
    1. ggpubr
    2. ggrepel
    3. ggplot2
    
    
    
   - [See Documentation Here](https://bit.ly/Doc_DataCleaningAndAnalysis)
  
  
   ### **Share and Act Phase** 
   - [See the Data Story Here](https://github.com/TolulopeOyejide/DataAnalysisProject_1/blob/630dbb3e288522648b94db6809e90e9134d68269/Data%20Story.pdf)
